---
title: "A Framework for Quality Assessment of ROS Repositories"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2016-IROS
excerpt: ' This paper presents HAROS, a generic, plug-in-driven, framework to evaluate code quality of ROS repositories, through static analysis. This tool was applied to several ROS repositories, and the results are also reported in the paper.'
date: 2016-10-13
venue: '2016 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS)'
paperurl: 'http://git-afsantos.github.io/files/2016-iros.pdf'
citation: 'A. Santos, A. Cunha, N. Macedo, C. Lourenço. (2016). &quot;A Framework for Quality Assessment of ROS Repositories.&quot; <i>IROS 2016</i>. 4491-4496.'
---
**Abstract:**
Robots are being increasingly used in safety-critical contexts, such as transportation and health.
The need for flexible behavior in these contexts, due to human interaction factors or unstructured operating environments, led to a transition from hardware- to software-based safety mechanisms in robotic systems, whose reliability and quality is imperative to guarantee.
Source code static analysis is a key component in formal software verification.
It consists on inspecting code, often using automated tools, to determine a set of relevant properties that are known to influence the occurrence of defects in the final product.
This paper presents HAROS, a generic, plug-in-driven, framework to evaluate code quality, through static analysis, in the context of the Robot Operating System (ROS), one of the most widely used robotic middleware.
This tool (equipped with plug-ins for computing metrics and conformance to coding standards) was applied to several publicly available ROS repositories, whose results are also reported in the paper, thus providing a first overview of the internal quality of the software being developed in this community.

[Download paper here](http://git-afsantos.github.io/files/2016-iros.pdf)

Recommended citation: A. Santos, A. Cunha, N. Macedo, C. Lourenço. (2016). &quot;A Framework for Quality Assessment of ROS Repositories.&quot; <i>IROS 2016</i>. 4491-4496.